---
layout: post
title: Reimagning Research



---
### The Topic

This is the [study](https://phys.org/news/2018-06-human-dogs-problems.html)

### Questions and Answers

1. Identify a statistical question that you could ask.

Are certain dog breeds more reliant on human encouragement to solve problems than others.

2. Identify the population you would study to answer the question. What information about the population would help answer your question?

The population would be all dogs. I would need to know their breeds in order to answer the question, and their results in the experiments

3. Identify a feasible sample frame, and explain your reasoning.

The sample frame will be the 8 most common dog breeds. This is because I want there to be enough data in each of the breeds I will be studying. Ideally, I could do this study for all of the dog breeds, however, that simply does not seem feasible due to the sheer number of breeds. 

4. Identify the sampling method you would use, and explain your reasoning. What makes this method better than the others?

I will use stratified sampling because I need a certain amount of each breed of dog, but the individual dogs within the group should be random. Due to the fact that I am comparing dog breeds, I need a certain amount of each breed.  Furthermore, the dogs can be easily separated into groups, and this will provide the most insight into each of those groups. 

5. Suppose you had the means to run an experiment on this sample. Identify the null and alternative hypotheses.

The null hypothesis is that the differences in the breeds show was due to the specific dogs selected personal characteristics and does not represent the breeds in general. The alternative hypothesis is that the breeds appeared to do similarly due to the specific dogs being used, and how those do not represent the breeds.

6. Identify the variables and treatments that would provide information about your question. Explain your choice of treatments.

Independent variable: which dog breeds is being used.
Dependant variable: How likely the dog is to solve the problems
The treatment is whether or not the dog is given encouragement when solving a task. This is easily feasible, and clearly ethical. Furthermore, with the question being whether certain dog breeds need encouragement more than others, this would clearly help us answer that question. 

7. Identify the treatment groups, and how each subject would be assigned to a group.

We will randomly separate the dogs into two groups, with there being an equal amount of each breed in each one. The control group will not receive any encouragement while performing the task, while the other will. 

8. Briefly discuss how the experiment would be conducted.

The dog and its owner will be placed in a room. There will be a puzzle with a treat for the dog inside. The dog will be allowed to start the puzzle when the conductor of the experiment starts his timer. He will end the timer when the dog finishes the puzzle. The owner will give encouragement to the dog depending on which group it is in. There is no way to really blind this study, but that is fine here. 

9. What biases may come up, and how would you address them?

A potential bias is that the conductor might start the timer either earlier or later with the encouraged group. They might start the timer when the owner starts encouraging them, or be more likely to end the puzzle when the dog finishes it, rather than when it eats the treat (which might happen with the other group). There is no real way to blind the conductor, since it will be pretty obvious if the dog is being encouraged, but they can set certain standards of when to always stop and start the time to reduce this problem. 

