---
layout: post
title: lab02



---s


### Results

The average of all the final values is 529.91



### Using A Stack

A stack is used to hold the numbers when evaluating a postfix notation. During every operation, the top two of the stack are used to produce a new number, and that number is added back to the top of the stack. Eventually, ther will only be one number left in the stack. A stack is used since the rightmost numbers before an operation are used first, and if the numbers are added from left to right intlo the stack, then the rightmost will come out first when it is time to do operations.



### My process

I started off with a stack for the numbers, and a queue for the operations. I would then go through the list, and add the numbers and operations to their respective stack/queue. At the end, I would simply dequeue the operation queue, and use that and the two nubmers produced by two popppings of the numbers stack to get a value which would be readed to the nubmers stack. This would cause their too eventually be only one number left in the number stack, which would be the final value. However, I made a critical mistake, this would only have worked if it was the dataset was numbers entirely on the left, followed by only operations on the right. Suppose the line for evalutation was 6, 6, *, 7, 8, +, +. My initial program would have unfortunately done 8 * 7 as the first operation, which would be a problem. So, I realized that instead of having a queue, I should simply use the operations as soon as I find them. I have two functions within my final code, evaluate, and lineAnalyzer. lineAnalyzer takes in a list (which would be one row), and starts off by creating an empty stack named values.  It then has a for loop that goes through the entire row. If the cell it is on does not have an operator it adds the value to the stack. If it is an operator, then it uses the evaluate function, inputing values.pop, valuesk.pop, and the operator. The evaluate function returns the value of the operation, which is then pushed into values. Similarly to my initial method, there will onyl be one number remaining in the values stack at the end, and the lineAnalyzer function retruns that value. 

In the main, the csv file is opened and converted into a list of lists, for each row in that, the lineAnalyzer is used to get the final value of each row. Those values are added to a list. the sum of that list divided by the length of it, revels the average. the list can printed itself to simply get all the final values. 