---
layout: post
title: Lab01



---

###### Petal Length

Iris-virginica has the largest average petal length.

###### Sepal Width

Iris-setosa has the largest average sepal width.

### How I created my code

I worked alone on this assignment

I started off by trying to group the data by species. To do this, I created lists that would contain the petal lengths or sepal widths of each species. 
I stated off by setting a variable called data equal to a list of dictionaries using DictReader. For each row, I would check the species key to see which species that row's data belonged to. I would then add the either the petal-lengths or sepal-widths to the list that was designated to hold that type for its species. Instead of adding both of the values at the same time to their respective lists, only one is done at a time. I did this in order to keep the code more organized, with the top half dedicated to petal-lengths, and the bottom dedicated to sepal-widths, even though it might have been less efficient. 
I created 2 dictionaries, (one for petal-length, one for sepal-widths) in which those lists mentioned above would be items, and the keys would be species names. This was just to keep it organized, but it was unnecesary.
I then divided the sum of a list by its length in order to get the average length/width for that species. I did that for each list. Those numbers would be compared in order to find which species had the greatest for each type. 
I started off by doing this, I never tried any other methods since this was working.



### What I Learned

I learned how to analyze and use csv files (as well as what a csv file is). I also learned how to use dictionaries, which seems very useful. Not much could have gone better. However, I kept getting this improper indentation error that took a while to figure out. I now know to never use spaces for indentations, even if it looks to be just as far out as tabs. Changing every indentation, besides where the error occured, to tabs, fixed my problem.  
